There are many ways to start a motivational letter, but one is the right way: I am Klevis Imeri. I come from one of the smallest countries in the world, with only 10,887 km² of area. To put it in perspective, there live as many people in Budapest as there are in my country. Furthermore, we declared our independence quite recently (2008), and many countries accepted it. One of them is also Hungary. So, coming from such a small part of the earth and being given this amazing opportunity to study at one of the best universities (BME) in the world is only thanks to the Hungaricum Stipendium program.

When I came here for the first time, it really burst the bubble I was living in. I saw the gigantic scale and infrastructure of Budapest: your (or should I start saying "our" now ;)?) beautiful bridges, buildings, museums, castles, churches, and the warm waters.
In the beginning, the culture clash was very apparent, but recently, I have become very accustomed to it. Socially speaking, the people here are calm and polite. One of the biggest shocks I had was that the English language is not as widespread as I thought, compared to my country. That's why the Hungarian we learn at the university (it was obligatory for scholarship holders) was really handy.

I can talk about my beautiful experiences here, but this motivational letter is really for the Excellence Award. My writing may seem cheerful and happy. In fact, I am like that all the time, but to be excellent means you have to make sacrifices. I am a bachelor of Computer Science Engineering at BME, and as the name suggests, you need to constantly put in an abundant amount of work. As hard as it may seem, I love the journey it provides. You don't just become better; you become the best. You don't just become an engineer; you become an excellent engineer. You don't just know the theoretical concepts; you feel them. What can put it in perspective is that I received the email that I had been nominated approximately a week ago, and now, not on Friday, not even on Saturday, but on Sunday, I find some time to sit down and write the application for this amazing award. I see the majority of students either going out on Friday or being lazy on the weekends, but that is not really how things flow in my life. To be great means you are constantly changing, constantly failing, constantly getting up, and constantly succeeding. Many like to say you need to make these sacrifices to achieve, but to me, they are not sacrifices; they are part of the journey. They are part of waking up every day at six-thirty to not just be the person I was yesterday but to be the person I am today, to be better. Many times in my life I have asked myself how do you help others. Well, some may find it controversial, but it's actually to develop yourself as a person. I mean, look around you. Do you really know how to make the monitor in front of you, or if you are reading this from paper, what about the printer? Every day in your pocket, you keep this little thing called a phone, but that isn't your invention. So, if you really get my point, your life has become extremely easier because of people who were willing to go one step deeper. People who were willing to wake up on their worst days and still enjoy the hardship, the pain, the suffering this life brings. These nouns are not to be avoided; on the contrary, those are things to be worshipped. At the end of the day, why do you celebrate the revolution? Because it's a symbol of an easy and funny day? Certainly, NO. It's because other people, who you have probably never met, have sacrificed many meaningful things they had so you can live in your own country, have your freedom, and have a place where you belong. Perfection is not achievable because it's not supposed to be, but the beauty of life stands in aiming for it every second you set foot on this ground.

This has gone on long enough, so to wrap it up, I really want to thank you, my international friends from all over the world, the amazing, expert professors for their hard work, BME for accepting me into their family, and most importantly, the Hungaricum Stipendium program for giving us the opportunity to experience this wonderful journey.


Klevis Imeri 
Budapest 
15/10/2023
